---
layout: post
title: UKNOF32 - Sheffield (16/10/2015 - 17/10/2015) 
---

<b>Peering tools session - Reverse Path Filtering</b> (Matt Walster) <br>
This was unfortunately only presentation I have seen from UK and Ireland Peering Forum. it was very interesting presentation about route filtering and how LINX avoids prefixes hijacking and any issues related to as-path manipulation (we have seen these kinds of attacks few years back with BitCoins). Slides were full of configuration snippets. If you are interested how peering is done from engineering/configuration point of view you should check this presentation.
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>An Update on the Openreach G.fast proof of Concept</b> (Dawn Devonald and Ian Boothsman) <br>
In 10 years Openreach plans to rollout broadband with the avg speed up to 500MBit/s into 90% of households around the UK.

<i>NGA2 Trial</i> <br>
800-900 MBit/s downstream maximum in labs<br>
August 2015 - First customers with average speed 300 MBit/s downstream<br>
<br>
<i>NGA2 - G.Fast</i> <br>
300m maximum distance for last mile fibre<br>
300Mbit/s downstream<br>
50MBit/s upstream<br>
<br>
<i>NGA2 - Fibre on demand</i> <br>
800MBit/s downstream<br>
100MBit/s upstream<br>
<br>
<i>I had to leave for a call....</i>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>Evolution of Ethernet Speeds - What’s New and What’s Next</b> (Greg Hankins) <br>
I was still on the call but it is worth to check slides. From what I have heard there was very interesting discussion after the presentation.
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>Post-burnout presenting: what I learned about how not to persuade people</b> (Dave Wilson) <br>
<i>Yeah it was a long call.......</i>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>bgpq3</b> <br>
This session wasn't even announced in the official agenda. It was very short introduction into bgpq3 tool. If you are looking for the tool to automatically generate route filters for particular ASN this is the way to go. You just enter ASN and it will generate config snippet - currently supported platforms are Juniper or Cisco. Feel free to contribute as they are always looking for the developers to help them with syntax for other platforms. They are using ix-f.net database (<a href="http://www.ix-f.net/ixp-database.html">http://www.ix-f.net/ixp-database.html</a>).
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>The $1,000 internet exchange</b> (Mook Remco) <br>
Interesting presentation how to start your own IXP. Based on true story! Check the slides with all the details.
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>Internet History Talk - Great British IXP Failures </b> (Keith Mitchell) <br>
Confession of Keith about the biggest mistake of his career. 
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>Google datacentre networking </b> (Phil Sykes) <br>
 Main requirement in Google's DCs is flat low latency network across the whole DC. In 2003 Google had meeting with major vendors to discuss new generation of network devices but they weren't really able to meet their criteria. No customer had the same requirements as Google. Therefore Google has decided to start developing their own devices. It also made sense since they are running only their own applications.
Phil has described the whole history of Google switches from Firehose (oh, I really don't miss those..) till current state-of-art Jupiter and Pluto switches. 
<br>
<br>
Google doesn't need large L2 domains but rather isolated L3 domains designed as leaf-spine network. Major part of applications communicates on L3 rather than on L2. In 2003 Google used OpenFlow to separate control from data plane. Additionally each ToR switch talks to other ToR switches - unique approach in SDN.
<br>
<br>
According to Google more than 90% of traffic stays within DC. Less than 10% of traffic leaves the DC. Therefore major part of traffic goes east-to-west rather than south-to-north.
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>How We Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Network</b> (David Rothera) <br>
Facebook has large network (surprise!) which is accessed by more than 1bn users from around the world each day. Facebook has wide range of tools to operate the network on day bases and to automate things as much as it possible. Few tools which sounds interesting to me:

Fibnet - Database to program the network for wide range of tasks - from circuit maintenance, across swapping linecards to adding or removing BGP peers.

Drain Services - Redirecting the traffic. No idea how this is done but my guess is via LISP or MPLS.

Megazord - Ultimate tool which aggregates errors. They have MASSIVE amount of information what is happening on the network. For instance 10 machines are down. This tool find that these machines are at the same rack. Therefore first guess is that the power is down. However switch is reachable therefore it must be something wrong with the switch. It will report that there is something wrong with the switch.

All these tools have been recycled rather than created. Megazord was firstly developed for servers but it has been amended for network purposes. The main fact is that Facebook internally shares the code of all the tools which has been developed and re-using/recycling it. Clear message to us and our plan with SDN - Sharing is the key!
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>Analysis of F-root placement using RIPE Atlas</b> (Ray Bellis) <br>
<i>Unfortunately had a call.</i>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>Using BGP for real-time import and export of spam whitelist/blacklist entries</b> (Peter Hessler) <br>
Interesting idea of distributing spam whitelist/blacklist via BGP. There is a huge potential I think. Obviously there are more popular ways how to do the list distribution via SpamAssasian etc. but this has some other advantages - faster reaction time, immediate updates, scalability. <br>
On the other hand I think it can't be deployed everywhere - you are reliable on somebody who run 'route reflectors'. Any mistakes are propagated quicker than you are able to react. There are deployments where you wouldn't deploy any Linux distributions with rolling updates and there will be always situations where you wouldn't deploy 'rolling spam updates'. However very interesting idea though.
<br>
<br>
<br>
<b>Verizon's DBIR</b> (Robert Lee) <br>
Not my cup of tea. Lot of talking about importance to educate employees to make them rather your allies than enemies in terms of company security. Phishing is still largest threat. Global decrease in frauds.
<br>
<br>
<br>
Links:<br>
<a href="https://indico.uknof.org.uk/conferenceOtherViews.py?view=standard&confId=34">UKNOF32 Agenda</a><br>
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/user/UKNOFconf">UKNOF Youtube Channel</a>
<a href="https://ukandirelandpeering.net/agenda.php">UK & Ireland Peering Forum 1.0 Agenda</a><br>






